# Challenge 6: World Weather Analysis

## Overall Description

- This repository contains examples of using API calls from OpenWeather and Google Places and Google Directions
- The data gleaned from these API requests created the following:
    - A Weather Database
    - A Vacation Search
    - A Vacation Itenerary

## Weather Database

- To extract data from the OpenWeather API I followed this basic process:
    - First generated random latitude and longitude values using the NumPy `random` function
    - Used the CitiPy library with a for loop to assign a city to those coordinates, populating a new list with the city names.
    - Performed an API request to OpenWeather and used the try-except method to add the weather data to a new list.
        - Involved parsing the JSON file for the following data:
            - Max Temp
            - Cloudiness
            - Humidity
            - Wind Speed
            - Current Weather Description
            - Country
- Finally, converted the list generated by the try-except method to a Pandas DataFrame and exported the DataFrame as a .csv file.

## Vacation Search 

- Now developing a way to isolate cities that fit a user's preferred temperature range. 

- Overall process included the following:
    - Read the WeatherPy_Database.csv as a Pandas DataFrame
    - Using the `input()` function to prompt the user to provide minimum and maximum preferred temperatures and storing those values as discrete variables. 
    - Use the `loc` method to isolate the cities that fit the user's criteria and create a new DataFrame.
    - Check the DataFrame for any empty rows 
    - Make a copy of the DataFrame and add a "Hotel Name" column
    - Iterate through the new DataFrame using `iterrows()` and perform an API request to the Google Nearby Search to locate hotels that fit the parameters.
    - Use the try-except method to add the hotel names to the "Hotel Name" column in the DataFrame.
    - Remove any empty rows by:
        - using the `loc` function to isolate any rows without a Hotel 
        - assign those empty rows to NaN using NumPy `nan` function
        - Drop the rows with NaN using `dropna()`
    - Export the DataFrame as a .csv file
    - Use `gmaps` to add a map with a marker layer with the following information: 
        - Hotel Name
        - City Name
        - Country
        - Weather Description with Max Temp

## Vacation Itenerary 

- This deliverable creates a travel itenerary to four cities that meet the user's temperature criteria, creates a map of directions, and a map with markers giving hotel information.

- Overall process included the following:
    - Import the WeatherPy_Vacation.csv file
    - Use `gmaps` to create a map with markers holding hotel, city, country, and weather information
    - Create 4 discrete DataFrames for each of the 4 cities in the trip itenerary.
    - Isolate the Latitude and Longitude for each city using `to_numpy()` and indexing. 
    - Use the Google Directions API and `gmaps` to create a map with a directions layer for the itenerary.
        - Start and End city are the same
        - Other 3 cities are considered `waypoints`
    - Use the `concat()` function to concatenate the 4 city DataFrames into one itenerary DataFrame.
    - Create a new map with markers for only the cities in the itenerary DataFrame.

# Summary 

- This challenge culminates in creating a vacation itenerary based on a user's temperature prefernces. 
- To do so, it must work in the following logical order:
    - Obtain latitude and longitude coordinates for cities.
    - Assign cities to those coordinates.
    - Request weather information for those cities and store in a .csv databse. 
    - Obtain temperature preferences from the user and create, find hotels in those cities based on those preferences.
    - Finally create the itenerary after all the necessary data is collected and visualized. 
- Understanding the end product and using proper psuedocoding creates smooth development process.
